-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to do the
Kubernetes services demo.
So let's see what we are going to implement as part of that.
So in a Kubernetes cluster
we are going to do a backend deployment.
So we have a simple springboot REST services
hello world service.
So we are going to deploy it.
As soon as we create the deployment,
automatically it's equivalent replica set
and then pod gets created.
So once that is done
we are going to create
the backend app related cluster IP services
using kubectl expose.
So once we do that,
so we'll go ahead and then create the frontend deployment.
So in frontend we are going to create a Nginx pod
and in that Nginx pod
we'll have a proxy to this respective
cluster IP service of backend
which is nothing but my backend service.
Now for the users to access our application
we'll also deploy the frontend app NodePort service
so that users will be able to access it.
So let's go to our GitHub repo
and we'll go to our 05 services with kubectl, right?
So introductory section
we already discussed in our previous lecture.
So let's go onto our step two
which is cluster IP service backend application setup.
So let's deploy a simple backend application
and then front it with a cluster IP.
So the application we are going to use is
a simple springboot REST application.
Just a hello world, REST application.
So what we need to do, if you want to deploy a application
we just need to create a deployment
and then front it with a service.
So, kubectl create deployment,
my backend REST app and the image of that, right?
So let me copy this, go to my terminal and then paste it.
So it should create our respective application, right?
So we can say pods, to see our pod is running.
Yes. And if you want
you can even say, logs -f, okay, kubectl logs -f,
and then check the logs of our springboot application.
It should be up running now.
Started your hello world application in three seconds
on port 8080.
Okay, So if you see here also we have exposed
means like we are going to expose as a service
with the port 8080, right?
And the target port is also 8080.
So we really don't need to mention target port 8080
but for our convenience means like
following a standard, so I just put it.
In addition to that
you really don't need to provide when you are doing,
when you're creating a service using kubectl
imperative command expose, right?
So you really don't need to provide
type is equal to cluster IP here.
Reason is cluster IP services by default created by
means like its a default service, okay?
So we really don't need to specify that
if it is a type is equal to NodePort,
yes we need to specify,
but for cluster IP, we really don't need to specify it.
So kubectl, expose deployment, my backend REST app,
port, target port, and my service name, my backend service,
the service name is my backend service. Okay?
So now everything is created, kubectl get svc.
So my backend stuff is completed now.
So now I need to create a frontend Nginx reverse proxy
and then that Nginx proxy should proxy to this
my backend service.
So for that purpose I prebuilt the container
and then put it here.
So if you go to our NodePort service
so in my Nginx conf,
I have put in the proxy pass,
my backend service:8080 as the port,
whatever we are seeing, right?
My backend service and then port is 8080, right?
So if it is not in default namespace
and then some other namespaces or something
again we need to give the full cluster DNS name
which is svc.default.svc.local,
all those stuff we need to give.
But as we are running in that default namespace only, okay?
kubectl get ns, right?
We'll list the namespaces.
This is a different concept, which we look into it later
but currently we are in the default namespace.
We really don't need to provide
any full cluster DNS host name here.
So that's the reason to make it very simple for you
and not to confuse too much.
So I just gave whatever is my cluster IP service name here
the same thing I have provided, right?
And then I have pre-built the image and then put it ready.
So in our docker hub,
so we can directly use it and then run these commands
and then everything should work for you. Okay?
So and no, no, no
I want to create my own reverse proxy related docker image.
Okay? Yes, you can do it.
So I have provided the steps and the source here
kube frontend Nginx.
If you click on that, so you'll, it'll take you to
00 docker images, 03 kube frontend Nginx. Okay?
So prerequisite is you should have your docker account
and then you can create your docker file like this.
Everything is present in this v1 release, the docker file
and which is nothing but
from Nginx you're taking your source image as Nginx
and you're copying the default.conf,
whatever is there in the current directory
to etc Nginx.conf.d right?
So if you're seeing one release
you'll see that default.conf also here
inside that you can see proxy pass
backend cluster IP service name and then port.
That's what you have put it here, okay?
So the same thing and you can go here
and then review these things and then after that you can
you can go into this v1 release folder, right?
Cd2 v1 release and from there you can build a
docker build -d and your docker hub id
and the kube frontend Nginx column 1.0.0
and take the files from the current directory dot okay?
And then push that to your dock hub id
and then you can start using it if you want. Okay?
So but for for me, like you can leverage this
this current whatever the docker image
and then you can continue,
but it's up to you.
Just I have given why? Because it is Nginx, right?
So I didn't give any steps for
related to springboot related application.
Why? Because again, it might confuse you
and then create complex stuff.
But here for Nginx it's a simple thing, right?
So you can try out your docker skills there
with those steps
and then come back and then leverage that here
so that you'll be more confident.
So for that purpose
I gave the detailed steps for kube frontend Nginx building.
Okay? So now lot of things we discuss it.
So let's go ahead and then create the frontend deployment
and then create the frontend expose that as a service, okay?
kubectl create deployment
my frontend Nginx app is my deployment name
and the image is kube -frontend Nginx. Okay?
So let's take this and we are here, okay?
Created, right?
And now let's go ahead and then expose it, right?
(keys clanging)
So clear, kubectl get pods,
both pods should be running now and get svc.
We should have two services related to backend service
and then frontend service with NodePort
and then NodePort ID.
So if you want to access your application
so you can say get nodes and -o wide, right?
And take the public IP here
and 32209 is our port.
So let's go to the browser
and say, okay,
and /hello, right?
(keys clanging)
Sorry. So the IP:32209 is my port
and then /hello is the context, right?
So, so we got the response, so let me make it bigger.
And if you see it here, 32209 is our node pod port
and then /hello.
So that is the thing.
So the same thing, we have done it 32209
and the context is /hello. Good.
So now what we are going to do is
so we are going to scale our backend applications
so that how the load balancing happens.
And then you can even see different values here.
Where is this?
Here, right?
So this container id, right?
So this is going to change continuously.
So whenever you refresh the browser
so let's test that
for our convenience, okay?
So, kubectl scale --replicas is equal to 10
and my backend application, okay?
So I'm scaling my backend application.
So let's go here and then scale it.
So now, kubectl get pods, my backend should be
10 backends, I should have, right?
So it's coming up.
So let's, okay, so all are up and running.
So now let's go ahead and then test that now, okay?
So where is this?
Here, right?
So I'll keep saying refresh, right? Right.
Okay, so we can refresh it, something, okay.
See, you can see this is changing continuously,
(keys clanging)
H60MV now.
So it's load balancing across all the backends, right?
9gvfm, wnzz.
So like this, you are seeing all the containers are up now
and then healthy, we are not even seeing that error. Okay?
So, vfmwg, okay?
So you can see how it is going on.
So that, that's about it.
So we have completed our services demo successfully
and one thing here is
we really didn't look into load balancer
and then external concepts here.
So these things we will look into
as part of our series of courses
whatever we are doing for AWS, Azure and then Google Cloud.
So in those things we will extensively look into this stuff.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye. Thank you.